# 1. DFS
Created Monday 30 March 2020

**Algorithm:**
We implement the graph as an adjacency matrix:

1. We ask the user number of vertices. We store this as n. Now we assume that the vertices are named from 0 to n-1.
2. We ask for how many edges. The user inputs the edge pairs. We mark (a,b) and (b,a) as true for all inputs 'a' and 'b'.
3. We go through all vertices, calling DFS from it if they are absent from visited, at the same time checking if visited.size()<V. This ensures that **disconnected components are also taken into account.**



* Internal stack is used, i.e recursion.
* **Our graph is a simple graph - i.e no self loops, no weights, single undirected edges only.**


*****

**Insights/Takeaways:**

* We need a visited array, and it is very important. If not used we'll end up in an infinite loop, even if the graph has a single cycle.
* DFS internally uses stack. And stacks may work using an array, but it will still require us to pop/replace an element. And as we don't scan all the neighbours it may happen that we pop a neighbour and again take it in some other run. **So visited array/map is needed**.
* Note that we go to the depths until we reach a node where all neighbours have been visited. Hence the name **Depth First Search**.


*****

**Efficiency**
T.C = [O(V+E)](https://stackoverflow.com/a/11468717/11392807)** if we use hashmap as visited array.**
S.C = O(E) for a linked list.
E = V^2^


*****

**Implementation tips**

* Use dynamic DSs.

[DFS code](./Codes/DFS.cpp)

*****

**Applications**

* Most problems are just variations of DFS and BFS.


