# 4. Strings
Created Wednesday 01 January 2020

**Chuck the primary strings A. Use B if talking about stings, substrings.**
In this section, we are going to deal with strings. Using our basic null terminated character array is too redundant.

* We will be using the string class, it does **the same**, just in a more intuitive manner. 

Things to remember:

1. We can use dynamic memory to declare strings. Obviously, we can use static allocationa s well.
2. We can use array notation to change the characters, i.e strings are mutable in C++.
3. We can take input using getline(cin, string_name);
4. string_name is just a character_array_name. i.e cout << string_name displays the whole string.
5. concatenation is done using + operator. += is also allowed. **Append and prepend** dealt with easily. You can append character to a string too.
6. Don't forget to use the -> if you are using string.


Why are we switching to strings view?
If we had to work with basic strings, we would've needed a 2D matrix and all.

* This is better than python, coz our strings are mutable(unitwise-changeable).



1. **For knowing the size**, string_name.**size**(); We can also use .length.
2. **Substring function:  **like splicing , **substr**(i): return the string from index i to the end.(incl) **Does not change the original string.**
3. **Modified substring**: **substr(**starting_index, length_required).  **Does not change the original string.**
4. **Find**, s.**find(**key**)**: returns the index correpsonding to the first occurrence of the key. returns -1 if not found. Can be used to seatch substrings.
5. **To check if string s is empty:** s.**empty()**, returns true for empty string, false otherwise.

**Catch: ** Using substr to splice from index i to index j (excluding).
Just do substr(i, j-i+1);
No headers are required for any of these.

* Dont't think of unneccessary details.


