# 5. Prim's Algorithm
Created Saturday 25 April 2020


* This algorithm is used for finding MST
* Greedy algorithm: We select the myopically best option.
* As it is a greedy algorithm, it is easy to implement.
* We have a table with three columns, (vertex, parent, weight(from parent to weight)).
* We also need two lists **visited **and** unvisited. **Better to keep an array. Space O(V). Initially unvisited has all the vertex and visited has none. Meaning of visited: The vertex where we have went and explored its neighbours. Vertex which are encountered as a result of the exploration are still unvisited.


Implementation:

1. Keep a 2 tuple array with i as the vector. (i.e we store parent and weight). Initially parent of start is -1, (no parent) and it's weight is zero. All other parents are blank and weight is INT_MAX(infinity).
2. Keep two lists,**visited **and **unvisited**. Intially visited is empty and the other is equal to V.
3. Select a minimum weight vertex from the **unvisted** vertex from the **table** and visit it's **unvisited** neighbours. If a neighbour has a lesser value than already update the weight and parent(to the current node). Add the current to the visited array. **Remove** it from the unvisited one. Continue until |unvisited|==0.
4. We have the MST starting from the selected weight. 
5. We **need** to find the minimum explicitly, as we may have some 'old' seen minimum which is not our neighbour now. **Our algo explicitly states that we run on the minimum from the table.**


T.C with matrix: O(V^2^)
For an adjacency list with my method: T.C ~ O(Ek) ~ O(E log V)
Optimizations:

1. Using Priority Queue - not required, we did not even have a findMIn.
2. Using adjacency list improves the search for neighbours.


T.C: (E+V)log(V) = E log V 

