# 2. static
Created Saturday 11 January 2020

Here, we'll study about use of ``static`` w.r.t OOP in C++ .
When we declare a member of a class as static it means no matter how many objects of the class are created, there is only one copy of the static member.

### Static Data Members
* A static member is shared by all objects of the class.
* They are not associated with any object, i.e they don't occupy an objects memory.
* They are **present** even if no objects have been made. i.e they can be called/accessed using ``class_name::member`` even before any object is made.
* They can be const, i.e ``static const`` variables are possible.
* They **had to be** initialized outside the class(before C++11), using the scope resolution operator. i.e ``data_type class_name :: static_variable_name = value;``. This was done to avoid duplicate initializations at place wherever the class header has been copied. The static data member may be a private one.
* But in C++11 we can initialize them [inside](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/static#Static_data_members), by using the ``inline`` modifier.

```c++
inline static int x = 2;
```

**Complete vs Incomplete** declaration.

* Changes can be made using the objects too, but should be **avoided**.
* A constructor can be used to keep track of number of objects created. This is an appilcation.


### Static Member Functions
* Static member functions can work only on ``static`` values and hence don't need an object to be invoked(you can do so if you wish). They can be invoked using the class_name itself(if public).
* Static objects/functions **don't have access to 'this'**. But can create their own non-static objects if required. i.e They cannot make changes to the caller object.
* static member functions [cannot](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7035356/c-why-static-member-function-cant-be-created-with-const-qualifier) be tagged ``const``. Because ``const`` will need to generate a const T* = ``this``, but ``this`` is inaccessible for static functions. **Pretty useless too.**
* C++ does not support static constructor.
* Static member functions can even be called without an object, like this:
```c++
MyClass::f(); // f is a static member function
```


