# 5. Friend Functions and Classes
Created Monday 27 April 2020


* Normally, cannot access private, protected properties of a class from inside another class, excluding the derived class too.
* This also implies that inter-class communication is not allowed. We can relax the definiton of private: But this breaks the concept of Data Hiding. Better, use a 3rd person(function or class) to access the contents of 2 or more objects simultaneously.



* We need to define this function outside both the classes.
* This can be used in two ways:
	1. Friend function is global function, i.e does not belong to any class. We'll need to include the function signature inside each of the participating classes. We can then access private values of all the objects made inside it(the function). **No need of function declaration here, as writing friend is itself a declaration.**
	2. Make the whole class as a friend. **Friendship is one-way**. The class having the friend declaration allows access to it's members, but the friend class's data cannot be accessed by it. **Friend class refers to the moody class.**

Notes:

1. Access modifiers do not affect friend functions in any way.
2. Friend functions don't have a **this** pointer, because they don't belong to a class, although they can access the data_members/member functions.
3. Keep the friend function/**class** prototype on top of the friendly class, as code is executed top-down 😒️. Holds for Friend Class too, i.e  define the friend class on top of the friendly class. **This helps in keeping code as it is even if relations change. ***Declaration of  a class looks like *
```c++
class MyClass;	//declaration of a class
```

4. We cannot define a friend function inside any class. It **must **be done outside.

Syntax: Just write friend like static. For friend classes write 'friend class'.


