# 3. const and constexpr
Created Thursday 26 December 2019

**Constant variables: **It's weird, we are apparently interested making variables, whose the value is unchangeable. **This is not the case.**


* ``const`` when treated as constant is a misnomer.
* This is not constant, as in mathematics. Memory, read and write is involved here.
* ``const`` means roughly ‘‘I promise not to change this value’’. We are speaking of the future here.


**Syntax**
```c++
const int p = 2; // instant initialization is necessary - results in error
```

**How does it works?**
In the symbol table, we have many fields like**:**

* Data type modifier are together with the data type. They are not a different field - (signed, unsigned, long, short).
* Access specifiers are useful only in OOP - (public, private, friend)
* Variable type specifier - These restrict operation on the variables(i.e read only, restricted write etc), hence qualifies them for different treatment w.r.t modification - (**const**, volatile, extern, auto).


**What does it do?**
const means **read only** for the variable, this is what is put in the symbol table.
They cannot be changes after they have been declarized.

#### Important concepts

* If we use a const int* to make a** pointer to a const integer**(i.e we will not change it), or by using **constant** **reference**, then the value in RAM can be changed(by other variables only), coz only the **path **was made const, not the memory storage.
```c++
int x = 2;
const int *p = &x;
x = 3;	// can change memory- OK
*p = 23; // error - change not allowed at using p
cout << *p; // prints 3
```

* const reference
```c++
int a = 12;
const int &k = a; // k is alias for integer constant(same as constant integer)
a++;       // OK
k++;       // error
cout << k; // 13
```

**Reason: **When we made a const int &, we copied the address to a new tuple in the symbol table, changed the name to k, and made the type qualifier as const. This makes it look as if k is a const variable. Hence no operations are allowed **through **it.

* 'a' is not const, so changes are possible **through **it.
* **const only bind the read/write access. Nothing else.**
* const pointer behaves the same as const reference. We cannot change the value(i.e memory location) through the pointer.


#### Questions
**Q) **Does the compiler allow ``const int* p = int*``(and vice-versa), why?
**A) **``const int* p = int*``, yes. Because **const** just makes a promise of immutability for a new variable, i.e we cannot restrict existing variables. In this case, we'll not be able to change the contents using the 'p'. In other words, **making a promise is allowed**.
The converse, i.e int * = const int*, no. // i.e this is **not allowed**. Because this will actually break the promise, i.e **breaking a promise is not allowed**.

**Q)** Is this allowed?
```c++
int i = 10, j = 12;
int const *p = &i; // change not allowed through p
p = &j; // but p can itself be changed.
```

**A) Yes,** valid because const restricts writing at the **address**. But changing the address itself **is** allowed, because we never promised about it. In step 3, we should read from right to left, for the declaration, "I am p, i will not make change at the address I store, **but **I can change the address itself.

Note

* For restricting change to the pointer, but allow writing to address
```c++
int * const p = &i; // p is a pointer(which we won't change) to an integer
// Here p itself is unchangeable
// But we can change the value at p.
```

* If we want to keep both the pointer and the value immutable, do this:
```c++
int const * const p = &i; // Neither address nor value at address changeable.
```

* **Verdict : **``const`` is very intuitive when seen from a symbol table. But it's not required.

Concise.

1. Only paths(through) are blocked. Storage can never be tagged constant.
2. We can make promises of immutability, but not do something that will break them. **Remember that** the compiler does not track memory, it only has the symbol table.
3. [Read](https://developerinsider.co/what-is-the-difference-between-const-int-and-int-const/) the declaration from right to left.(One const can only put one restriction).
4. Use east const style.
5. *const data_type* and *data_type const* is the same. For any case. Even if you use & and *.

**Advantages: **

1. We used reference to decrease the argument copy overhead. by avoiding a pointer. By using const data_type, we protect it further. **Hence **we find const int at [many places](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/162480/const-int-vs-int-const-as-function-parameter-in-c-and-c) in headers like iostream and STL.
2. Point 1 helps immensely in funtion calling.


constexpr
---------
Consider the following code - here there's no optimizations that the compiler can make to age. This is because its value is known only at run-time.
```c++
int ageInput;
cin >> ageInput;
const age = ageInput; // age cannot be changed
```


But if we are sure of a value at compile time, then use ``constexpr``
```c++
int ageInput;
cin >> ageInput;
constexpr age = ageInput; // age cannot change
// compiler optimization possible
```

**Note:**

* Difference
	* ``constexpr`` indicates a value that's constant and known during compilation.
	* ``const`` indicates a value that's only constant; it's not compulsory to know during compilation.
* All constexpr objects are const, but not all const objects are constexpr.
* constexpr just enables compiler optimization.


