# 1. Intro to hashMaps
Created Tuesday 18 February 2020

**Q1**) Given a sentence, return the maximum occurring character:
**Ans**: Simple hack, make a 256 sized array. Traverse the array and keep the characters at its ASCII value. While doing this, keep a max variable and a max character, keep updating it if you find a bigger array. Done in **single** scan.
**Catch**: The data in the array was subset of some finite set, and also that the data had a one-one relation with the indexes.
Terminology: 
**Key:** the thing which is used to **call/query **our map.

**Q2**) Find the maxium occurring word(may not be meaningful) in a sentence.
**Ans**: Here the universal set is infinite. As we do not have a limit on the length and the permutation.
Here we will need to make a map, i.e the key(here a word) with a **value**(no of times it has occurred).
This is called a **map, key-value pair or dictionary.**

The map interface:

1. insert(key, value)
2. getValue(key)
3. delete(key)


Ways of implementing this:

1. Linked list - every node has a pair<key, value>
	1. insert() - O(n), we have to find the node, update it if found. Or add a note if key is not present.
	2. getValue() - We need to do linear search. O(n)
	3. delete(key) - check if node is present. Delete if found. O(n)

Very bad approach. Our ideal is the array - O(1) access.

2. BST, we are using some balanced BST.

We should have some ordering. In words we can do lexicographical.

1. insert() - O(logn), we have to find the node, update it if found. Or add a note if key is not present.
2. getValue(logn) - search. O(logn)
3. delete(key) - check if node is present. Delete if found. O(logn)

Very good approach. Our ideal is the array - O(1) access.
Implement this.

3. We use hash table. For some wise thing, we will first see STL offering. We will see all the theory etc afterwards.




* Note: access and search are two different things. They are the same in hashmaps.



