# 5. Approach for writing a class
Created Monday 13 January 2020

How to make a class:

1. Decide **data** members. Check if there is a need for **static** and **constants**. If yes, include them.
2. Constructors and Destructors.
	1. Provide a default constructor, set it as per contextual defaults.
	2. Check if a parameterized constructor is required.
	3. Check if any level 2 memory(i.e DS) requirement is present, if yes, provide a *deepened* **copy constructor** and *deepened* **copy assignment operator**.
	4. Destructors: check if a level 2 memory is present, if yes, free it.
3. Grouping functions is important, write their names and objectives only:
		1. Getters aka **Accessors**
		2. Setters aka **Mutators**
		3. Checkers aka **Inspectors**. is_fff()  __ignorable__
		4. Overloaded **Operators.	**__ignorable__
		5. Content aka **Facilitators. // logic part	**
4. Decide the operators to be overloaded, if required. Add them to the list of of functions.
5. For each function, write skeleton, then:
	1. **Return type and qualifier**: 
		1. Does it need to returns a copy or changes the same object. **Return by **reference/value?
		2. Nestability in operators. **Return by **reference/value?
		3. If it works with static data members **only** (i.e no this parts are accessed). Write the **static **qualifier. 
	2. **Parameters:**
		1. For the parameters which don't need a change, take them as const references.
		2. For the objects where we do need a change, take them as references.
	3. If any const data members are present, initialize them using the **initialization list**.
	4. **For **__operators__** only**, check if it is a post or pre. For unary post operators, write (int) in the param list.
	5. Write the code.
		1. Make sure objects **to be returned** are created inside the function. Return by value. If we need to return **this**, then return by reference. Buffer(rvalue optimization) will handle the rest.
		2. Use copy constructor as much as possible. If a deepened version is present.
	6. Check if returned value is at par with the return type.
	7. Finally, mark the function **const**, if it's possible do so. (This is not allowed for constructor, destructors and static functions).
6. Leave notes for initializing any static data members.




