# 2. Inline and Default Arguments
Created Thursday 26 December 2019

Some more helpul things in cpp.

#### Ternary operator
This is used to write if else loop(s) in a concise way.
```c++
logical_expression ? value1 : value2;
```

* [Nesting](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/c-nested-ternary-operator/) is possible.

**Use-cases: 	**

1. During assignment;
2. For general cases, in cout, cin etc. Prefer to use parentheses to avoid confusion.

**Disadvantage: **The readability decreases, while performance is the same as using if else. It should be used only for simple statements.

#### Inline functions
```c++
inline f(int a)
{
	// some code
}
```
**Case**: Suppose we the maximum of two integers, but for such a small thing, calling a function would be an unnecessary overhead.
There's something called inline functions, where our code is expanded at the place of the function call(called **in-place expansion**).
**Expansion criteria: **The compiler decides if the function is suitable for expanding inline or performing a normal function call. If the function is bulkier, then the compiler will treat the function as a normal function, and no in-place expansion will take place. So using **inline **is only a **request**, and does not guarantee if the compiler will perform in-place expansion for the function.

* worth reading <https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inline-functions-cpp/>

**Q) **Why don't we use all functions as inline irrespective of size, i.e why to use normal functions.
**A) **This is logic not helpful, because in-place expansion **does **increase the **size of the executable **file, which can be a bottleneck at many platforms. Like Arduino etc, where memory is **expensive/less**.

* Functions have their own significance, i.e to improve readability, optimize performance and executable size, easy debugging etc. **Inline **functions cannot take their place.


#### Default arguments

* We can make arguments optional by providing some value. Achieved using default arguments.
* The value can be anything, literal or otherwise.

**Rules**

* The formal parameters are assigned from left to right during call.
* The default parameters are **must be at end(rightmost)** of the argument list. Else the program will **not **compile.
```c++
int f(int x =0, int y = 0, int z) # error
```
**Syntax:**

* If prototyped, default args should be mentioned **only** in the function **declaration**. Writing them again is an error.
```c++
void f(int=2, int=23); // omitting variable name is OK

int main(){	f(); return 0}

void f(int x, int y){} 		// OK
void f(int x=2, int y=23){} // error
```
If no prototyping is done, then include the default args.

**Caution**

* When overloading a function, make sure that there's no ambiguity.
```c++
int sum(int x, int y, int z = 0);
int sum(int x, int y, float z = 0.0);
int main()
{
	sum(1,2,3); // ambiguos - int(3) or float(3), can't decide
}
int f(int x=2, int y=3) {}
int f(){}
int main()
{
	f(); // ambiguous f(x=2, y=3) or f()
}
```

* Default arguments cannot be the previous parameters, but global variables may be used as default. This is allowed though, for template parameters.


Examples of default aguments:
```c++
// global variables
int glob = 2;
void i(int x=glob){}

// other functions
int g(){ return 2;};
void f(int h=g()){} // another function - OK
```
