# 1. Pointer Intro
Created Saturday 21 December 2019

(Optional - I knew this) Pointers exhaustive from scratch: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-HBipu_1P0&list=PL2_aWCzGMAwLZp6LMUKI3cc7pgGsasm2_>

#### Pointers
Pointers are variables which hold memory addresses. 

* Size of a pointer variable is system(compiler) dependent. A memory address is basically a number. Size of a pointer does not depend on the data type it is pointing to. We can use ``sizeof`` operator to get the size of a pointer, in bytes.
* All variables, we are speaking of, are on RAM. **We are manipulating secondary memory - HDD, SSD, etc.**
* Jump(memory blocks to read) is decided by using a **symbol table**. It has atleast 3 columns. (variable name, type, starting_address). Type decides the jump for reading/writing.
* Symbol table can have two differently named variables for the same address. This is how **references** are implemented.
* It is wrong to assume that a 32 bit architecture will always use 8 bytes for pointer 4 bytes for an integer. This is mostly true, but not guaranteed, so any code which assumes this is not portable.


#### Points to - jargon

* "points to" means that a pointer variable holds the **starting_address** and **jump** for the intended memory location.


#### Declaration:

* for single pointer variable. ``data_type *variable1;``
* for multiple pointers on the same line, ``data_type *v1, *v2 ...``
* This means that we can declare normal and pointer variables on the same line.

NOTE: Always initialize pointer to ``nullptr`` or ``NULL`` or ``0``. ``nullptr`` is recommended.

#### Assignment

* ``p_variable = &normal_variable``
* ``p_variable = pointerVariable``
* ``&`` is called the "address of" operator, it looks up the ``starting_address`` of the given variable(from the symbol table).
* We can declare a pointer for a pointer using 2 asterisks. Remember that a variable of type "pointer to pointer ... to pointer" is the same as a single level pointer variable(if we look at the lookup table). Of course, the content is context specific.


#### Dereferening(access value)

* Interacting(i.e *reading/writing*) value of the variable using its pointer variable is called a dereference. The pointer **needs **to be a valid address and a have a jump(i.e not be a ``void`` pointer). 
* void pointers cannot be derefenced(jump size is undefined). 
* A pointer with an invalid address(i.e NULL or nullptr or 0) cannot be dereferenced. Hence, NULL is used as a sentinel value.


#### Jargon for problematic pointers
Source: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uvw5bZZT3pM>

1. **Wild pointer** - an uninitialized pointer.
2. **Dangling pointer **- a pointer pointing to a inexistent variable(a variable that has been **deallocated **aka** destroyed **aka** has gone out of scope**).  Access can lead to segmentation faults/crashes. Be careful with static pointers - they are initialized only once.
3. **void pointer** - a pointer which is not associated with any data type. The type field(in the symbol table) is undefined. So it cannot be dereferenced(coz we don't know how much to jump). Use - general purpose pointer, can store address of all types of variables.
4. **NULL pointer**, has an address value of zero. This is not an actual address, so it is used as a [sentinel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentinel_value#:~:text=In%20computer%20programming%2C%20a%20sentinel,a%20loop%20or%20recursive%20algorithm.). NULL may be a ``char`` or ``int`` or ``long`` depending on the compiler. In modern usage, ``nullptr`` is recommended.


