# 4. Characters and Pointers
Created Monday 23 December 2019

Character arrays and pointers have a different behavior, as compared to numerical data types.

* cout behaves differently for character pointers and array names(i.e addresses), instead of printing the address, it prints the value at the address till we reach a memory byte where we have a null character.
* cin, if taken in a memory address or array name, will make a **temporary memory for storing all input, **when it encounters a whitespace, it copies all the elements from the **temporary space to a contiguos memory space** of the (to be string's) length.

**Note: **This is okay. But initializing a char* with a string may or may not work. As the literal is stored in the **temporary memory** which may or may not be readable after taking the input. So, the safe method is to **not **initialize the pointer directly using *string literal. ***Note **that such a declarization is available only for strings and not for any other data type. e.g int *x  = 2 is invalid, while char* x ="sanjar" will generate warnings but unsafe.

* assignment exception: char* x = "sanjar" is valid. Although, this is invalid in -pedantic flag. = has been overloaded for character addresses(pointers and array names).


**Note: **

* *These* 3 cases and *only* these 3 cases are an anomaly, no other exceptions are there for character arrays. So, *derefencing *char *, works the same as it does for integers and other data types.
* Referencing(using &), cannot help us know the length of the string(or any array in general). As it operates on the address and not on the sizeof() value in the symbol table.


