# 1. AVL trees
Created Wednesday 12 February 2020

#### Intro

* AVL stands for Adelson-Velsky Landis
* An AVL tree (named after its inventors **A**delson-**V**elsky and **L**andis) is a self-balancing binary search tree.
* Invention of AVL tree was published in the **1962** paper "*An algorithm for the organization of information*" in Russia.


#### Why AVL trees

* They support all the usual operations - addition, deletion and searching  in O(log n) time.
* Additionally, Two trees can be merged in O(log(m+n)) time.
* Space taken - θ(n)
* Height is always ~log(n). To be precise it is between log(n) and 1.45*log(n)


#### What is 'balance'

* Each node stores a number in the range -2 to 2, inclusive.
* This number is called the balance factor. b = |left_subtree_height - right_subtree_height|
* Balance factor must have a sign. This helps in differentiating which side is heavier.

#### What is 'imbalance'
If atleast one node with a balance factor of 2 or -2 exists, then the tree is said to 'not balanced'.

#### How to re-balance

* During deletion/insertion, a leaf node is added or removed. Traverse up from there and change the balance factor for the parents.
* The first node where balance factor is unacceptable is called the pivot.
* Do a rebalancing on this pivot.


#### Insertion

* Insert like BST
* Rebalance if required


#### Deletion

* Remove like BST
* Rebalance if required


Important facts about rebalancing:

* One rebalance(i.e with one pivot) is always enough. Reason: Height of a tree after rebalancing(on insertion) = Height of the original tree. And as the other subtree of the pivot was comparable, it will remain so after the rebalancing operation. Works for deletion too.
* At most 3 nodes are changed in a rebalance operation.
* Both insert/delete use the same balancing algorithm.

[Reference](https://skerritt.blog/avl/)

#### Proof of AVL operations
**Note**

* There are 4 cases which describe all possible cases of an AVL tree insertion.
* The parameters T1, T2, T3, T4 may be ε, leaf or a tree themselves.
* The 4 operations are called **rotations** and they are very simple to tell, just by observation.

**To prove** - Make sure that insertions/deletions and the rebalance maintains balance.
**Proof **- [./avl_proof.jpg](./1._AVL_trees/avl_proof.jpg)

