# 1. Vector aka Dynamic Array
Created Friday 24 January 2020

Vector is just another name of our Dynamic Array. Exactly the same as our implementation.

* It has been implemented in STL.
* Doubles the size when the size is less.
* Keeps a size variable.
* Keeps a capacity variable.
* Starts from size 0, i.e NULL.
* Can be used dynamically and statically.

header: **<vector>**
Declaration:
vector <data_type> v; 	static
vector <data_type>* v = new vector<int>();	//note the parentheses
// We can specify initial capacity by providing an integer paremeter to the constructor. e.g vector<int> pq(23); **Remember that this inserts a garbage of type int, i.e size()==capacity().**
Methods:

1. vector_name.**push_back(T)** - append. We **must **use this function only, as it checks for capacity and updates size.
2. vector_name.**at(i)** - access/modify value at index i, if within size. **Can be used as lvalue too.**
3. v[i] can also be used, but it is not safer for **insertion**, as it does no range checking. Use it only when you are sure of the index.
4. v.**size() **- returns the number of elements in the vector.
5. v.**capacity() **- returns the capacity of the vector. i.e maxium elements which can be taken without resizing.


Learnt on my own:

6. v.**reserve(int i)** - makes the initial capacity as the i places.
7. **clear() - **makes size = 0. size() does not return an lvalue.
8. v.**insert(position, value) **inserts the value at index position and returns the iterator to the place where it has inserted val.
9. v.**begin**() - returns iterator to the first element
10. v.**end**() - returns iterator to **one place after** the last element. i.e iterator to v.at(i+1). It may not exist though.
11. = operator does a **deep** copy of the vector.
12. To slice a vector, use the vector's **constructor**(v.begin(), v.end())


Note: Just don't try to break the abstraction.
Advantages:

1. Very space efficient. Least wastage.
2. Fastest access.
3. Doubling decreases the sporadic insertion time. Can be compensated with reserve().


