# 2. const member functions
Created Saturday 11 January 2020

#### What is const in OOP?

* A ``const`` **object** - an object whose data-members are all *const*. **This is by definition.**
* A ``const`` **member function** is a member function that guarantees it will not modify the object or call any non-const member functions (as they may modify the object).


#### How to make a function 'const'

* If our const mark(on the function) is fake(i.e it changes the object), then the const binding of the data member will be give an error.
* How to tag a function as *const*. Put *const* after the parentheses, before the definition code block.

```c++
class A
{
	...
	void foo() const
	{
		// code
	}
	...
};
```
**Note**

1. Const functions can be invoked through both const and non const objects.
2. Const objects can access only const functions, i.e const objects are limited in their actions.
3. A const function **can** change attributes for a non-const param passed to it. The only restriction is changing the caller object.
4. Special functions(like constructors, destructor and copy assignment operator) cannot be made ``const``.
5. A function can be [overloaded](https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/810-const-class-objects-and-member-functions/#urvanov-syntax-highlighter-5fc3d172dab82489944693) to have a ``const`` function and a non-``const``, both are considered different, because constness is part of the function signature. Here a ``const`` object will call the ``const``  function, otherwise the normal function is called.


#### How does const work
const functions just have a** const T* **instead of a normal** this. **

#### [Changing](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6852717/what-can-a-const-method-change/6853421#6853421) a data structures in a const function
Why use as constant functions?: <https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/C%2B%2B_Programming/Programming_Languages/C%2B%2B/Code/Keywords/return>


* Remember const first takes value then tags the path constant.

<https://stackoverflow.com>

