# 4. Coding a Graph
Created Monday 30 March 2020


* Note: Consider |V| << |E|. Vertices are less.|E| ~ |V|^2^

There are 3 types of implementations:

1. **Edge List**

We can save all the vertices in a vector. Edges are stored as 2-tuples of neighbours(vertices).

* V = {v1, v2, v3 ...}
* E = {(v1,v2), (v2, v3),...}
* This is very slow, even checking if A and B are neighbours, requires a linear search of the edge list i.e ~nC2 searches = O(n^2^) = O(E)
* Space is O(E)
* __Definitely not good.__


2. **Adjacency List** 

Store a list of vertex. Also, store a table containing vertiex-{neighbours of vertex}. Neighbours are a vector of the neigbhouring vertices. This is very nice.

* V = {v1, v2, v3 ...}
* E = An array of neighbour lists for each vertex.
* Checking A is a neigbour of B is O(V) for a children array, or we can use a hashmap O(1) whp.
* It is space efficient - takes into account sparsity of the graph.
* Really fast.
* But difficult to implement.


3. **Adjacency Matrix**

We don't need to store the vertices seperately. Both V, E are stored in the same structure.

* We'll make a square matrix(i.e 2D array) of size |V|*|V| with each element storing true or false or number of edges(for multigraphs), corresponding to the value of isNeighbour(A,B).
* The fastest - O(1). Just access G[A][B] for checking if A and B are neighbours.
* The most space **in**efficient. Any graph occupies the same space as a complete graph.
* Bad for sparse graphs. i.e where edges ~ V. Very few trues and many falses.


Verdict: Adjacency matrix is faster than Adjacency list. We use it if we have no space constraint. We use a list when space is scarce. Generally matrices are used for competitions, where speed matters.

**We will be using adjacency matrix as it is the most easy to implement.**

*****

Note: The representations discussed are applicable for all types of graphs - directed, undirected, multi, self-loop etc.

